---
layout: post
title: Programming environment
summary: How to I set up my programming environment.
tags: [git, cygwin, notepad++, nginx]
css:
- /css/pygments.css
---


h2. Cygwin ("link":http://www.cygwin.com/)

with:
* "git":#git

h2. Mintty ("link":http://code.google.com/p/mintty/)
as a terminal for Cygwin

h2. Notepad++ ("link":http://notepad-plus.sourceforge.net/)

with:
* "Context Menu Component":http://notepad-plus.sourceforge.net/commun/misc/NppShell.zip copy to your notepad++ directory and run reg.bat
* "Plugins":http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/notepad-plus/index.php?title=Plugin_Central
** Explorer plugin (Light Explorer removed)
** LanguageHelp
** Function List


p(highlight_header). run_editor.sh ( "download":/code/run_editor.sh )

{% highlight bash %}
#!/bin/sh
/c/soft/npp/notepad++.exe -multiInst -notabbar -nosession -noPlugin "`cygpath -w "${1}"`"
{% endhighlight %}

h2. DiffMerge ("link":http://www.sourcegear.com/diffmerge/)

h2(#git). Git ("link":http://git-scm.com/)

Installed under cygwin.



p(highlight_header). git_setup.sh ( "download":/code/git_setup.sh )

{% highlight bash %}
#!/bin/sh
git config --global user.name "Lauri Rooden" 
git config --global user.email lauri@neti.ee

git config --global core.autocrlf false
git config --global color.branch auto
git config --global color.diff auto
git config --global color.interactive auto
git config --global color.status auto

git config --global alias.b branch
git config --global alias.go checkout
git config --global alias.c commit
git config --global alias.s status
git config --global alias.d diff
git config --global alias.cp cherry-pick
git config --global alias.e '!/bin/run_editor.sh'

git config --global core.editor "git e"

git config --global mergetool.diffmerge.cmd "/c/Program\ Files/SourceGear/DiffMerge/DiffMerge.exe -nosplash --merge --result=\$MERGED \$LOCAL \$BASE \$REMOTE"
git config --global mergetool.diffmerge.trustExitCode false
git config --global merge.tool diffmerge

git mergetool -t diffmerge

git config --global diff.external "/c/Code/diffmerge-diff.sh"


{% endhighlight %}

h2. nginx ("link":http://nginx.net/)

as a webserver

h2. php ("link":http://php.net/)

On FreeBSD:

{% highlight bash %}
pkg_add -r pkg-config
pkg_add -r libiconv
pkg_add -r libxml2

wget http://php-fpm.anight.org/downloads/head/php-5.2.8-fpm-0.5.10.diff.gz

wget http://ee2.php.net/get/php-5.2.8.tar.bz2/from/ee.php.net/mirror

bzip2 -cd php-5.2.8.tar.bz2  | tar xf -
gzip -cd php-5.2.8-fpm-0.5.10.diff.gz | patch -d php-5.2.8 -p1

cd php-5.2.8

./configure --enable-fastcgi --enable-fpm --with-pgsql
./configure --enable-memory-limit --with-layout=GNU --with-config-file-scan-dir=/usr/local/etc/php --disable-all --enable-libxml --with-libxml-dir=/usr/local --enable-spl --with-regex=php --disable-cli --enable-fastcgi --enable-fpm --with-pgsql

make all install
{% endhighlight %}

